A single loop that chooses an activity in each loop, where the activity is stored in memory and impacts states. The states then impact the probability of an activity in the next loop.

Activities can be short (seconds) or long (hours) and the character has a series of activities they can do at any given moment based on current state or evolution (they can learn to do new activities).

While initially most activities will be within the characters digital realm, we can slowly introduce activities that engage with our digital realm (aka social media, ecommerce shops, etc).

The benefits of this approach include (1) being able to start for a lower cost by introducing breaks (e.g. naps) instead of constantly running inference (what creature is constantly using max brain power?), (2) being able to modularly build and add activities, which is beneficial for asynchronous and decentralized collaboration, and (3) having a simple core loop that manages memory, state, and rules.

Activities are essentially functions stored in an activities folder, with the optional ability to call APIs - which can be used to call external APIs or more complex activities that might be built as a stand alone application.

The output of every activity is stored as memory, with the activity type as a tag. Activities can query memories, and even create memories from within an activity, which are stored as sub memories of the final memory stored when the activity is complete.

State management starts by creating an ontology of states, or a list of metrics/variables to track (e.g. XP, energy, etc.), what they can be (values, options, etc), and a description of what they mean and/or how they work.

The various state of the character impacts the likelihood of activities it might choose next, and the activities in turn will impact the states. A set of rules will be stored to defines these relationship, which we can have generated by AI based on user input, and automatically updated based on new activities and observations (or new user feedback).

Similar to memory, the state of the character is accessible to Activities that want to incorporate these.

This is meant to mimic humans and animals, doing one task at a time, eating, sleeping, and so on. Energy intensive activities may increase likelihood of rest.